+++
## Generated by the R package lazyacademic
## Do not edit directly, edit the data source (id = https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1d0Y6FAWaVOr5VMx8_lRYm2VM2HHm2ocWIoUZwtqWHhU/edit#gid=31021914)

title = "Effectiveness of BRAF inhibitors in patients with BRAF V600 mutation positive glioma; a systematic review"
date = 2019-10-01
authors = ["Yao I","Dawson S","Higgins JPT","**McGuinness LA**","McAleenan A","Kurian K"]
publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "Neuro-oncology *21*(Suppl 4)"

abstract = "Background: BRAF inhibitor treatment with vemurafenib and dabrafenib have produced significant increases in median overall survival for BRAF V600 mutation-positive melanoma patients and are in wide clinical use. BRAF inhibitors have also been used in an ad hoc fashion in BRAF V600 mutation-positive glioma in a number of glioma subtypes with varying prognoses. <br><br>Methods: An electronic search was performed on MEDLINE and Embase on February 1, 2019 to identify studies of any design that reported the outcome of patients with BRAF V600 mutation-positive glioma treated with BRAF inhibitors. Data was collected for demographic information, tumour information (type and grading), BRAF mutation type, prior treatment regimens, type of BRAF inhibitor, dose and duration of treatment, best objective response, progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), glioma specific symptomatic relief and adverse events. <br><br>Preliminary Results: Seventy-nine case reports, case series and single arm cohort studies with a total of 286 patients were included. Duration of treatment was available for 197 patients and varied from 0.1 to 54 months, with 104 patients still undergoing treatment at the time of publication. Progression occurred in 158 patients (including both low-grade and high-grade glioma) at between 0.805 and 36 months following the start of treatment. 34 people died, at between 0.329 and 40.1 months following the start of treatment. <br><br>Conclusions: Our systematic review shows varying clinical effectiveness of BRAF inhibitors in BRAF V600 mutation-positive glioma depending on low-grade or high-grade glioma. This evidence may inform future trials of BRAF inhibitors for glioma patients.<br><br>"

selected = false
featured = true

doi = "10.1093/neuonc/noz167.059"

url_pdf = "https://watermark.silverchair.com/noz167.059.pdf?token=AQECAHi208BE49Ooan9kkhW_Ercy7Dm3ZL_9Cf3qfKAc485ysgAAAqgwggKkBgkqhkiG9w0BBwagggKVMIICkQIBADCCAooGCSqGSIb3DQEHATAeBglghkgBZQMEAS4wEQQMerV6MSE2IKhor98-AgEQgIICW3Pve0fqPIsLgKNddq95EH2ftfUkq9qlE2SRjc2Gd6CAiF4lrTa8m5l6iQab2W3sTqd-sThQ_U6w6pvLqenpU9-FAQrHWq81O5JGKBwkn3L25NQoScoS-FpdADOttg05a4lVthM4pMc8S4C_DaaRIkXtKPvTef1xCRt6k3FTiGyCo00fu_pRSGsKEwuSBEqfWlwr6PdsvTqBWUAz3FUu4QtjuCmWtuHo1spH0jeHjgMAoCmgY534zB_7FpEtSMBIZt20RjohJIAFwynseC0iKkqSdC7tuRxmNO3-sDGyB_r3HNFS17ETbjyk6sLV6L-rdzUIp5AYwt8FZfbgPTVhMcFMcX6WsyY-pI_7jwy_3pN04H84Qs3jg9qAk6j6yFY9RHTu469tQiFqObXBli7gbIVjpBfudsCY8Gml_1UEwGaIL8Llpz6BHKAmSCHRWqPtEmh_aWEdYegi3O-CnvVm9TTVo34pW2FQ-ofWhFTOXLCywg7NQ2yDmaOpCL-sGPoe-RyQw6_ZItTGoqDVn9sd5RWImeld2W94wHSmHhpIdHlFXR8Hwu_xah0PuPLVjiXelOb6pGd4xR9Ksv0hFLv7Q1kyXQ6gqAwTp8P7KBB_UzU2-Lgd34SZreqEtln9OCuz0CLpp6Y3TpAqyosa84daXDLlwdFIBsP_18VBl_B1NIfoJdPBQgdaEu6N0adNO98kLjuUz6X5TgFkYH3LzbbKBJFZqLqTfktO2TQfeTEIfQWEpEdEdF7WOV2nnJipQnqTKNqwebzah_WAfj3zYJS42ypaMukq33IW9e_pZA"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

tags = [""]
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
