+++
## Generated by the R package lazyacademic
## Do not edit directly, edit the data source (id = https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1d0Y6FAWaVOr5VMx8_lRYm2VM2HHm2ocWIoUZwtqWHhU/edit#gid=0)

title = "The prevalence of symptoms in 24,410 adults infected by the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2; COVID-19): A systematic review and meta-analysis of 148 studies from 9 countries"
date = 2020-06-03
authors = ["Grant MC","Geoghegan L","Arbyn M","Mohammed Z","**McGuinness LA**","Clarke EL","Wade RG"]
publication_types = ["2"]

publication = "PLOS One *15(6)*: e0234765"

abstract = "Background: To limit the spread of SARS-CoV-2, an evidence-based understanding of the symptoms is critical to inform guidelines for quarantining and testing. The most common features are purported to be fever and a new persistent cough, although the global prevalence of these symptoms remains unclear. The aim of this systematic review is to determine the prevalence of symptoms associated with COVID-19 worldwide. <br><br>Methods: We searched PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, AMED, medRxiv and bioRxiv on 5th April 2020 for studies of adults (>16 years) with laboratory test confirmed COVID-19. No language or publication status restrictions were applied. Data were independently extracted by two review authors into standardised forms. All datapoints were independently checked by three other review authors. A random-effects model for pooling of binomial data was applied to estimate the prevalence of symptoms, subgrouping estimates by country. I2 was used to assess inter-study heterogeneity. <br><br>Results: Of 851 unique citations, 148 articles were included which comprised 24,410 adults with confirmed COVID-19 from 9 countries. The most prevalent symptoms were fever (77% [95% CI 74%-80%]; 138 studies, 21,701 patients; I2 94%), dry cough (58% [95% CI 54%-61%]; 136 studies, 17,380 patients; I2 93%) and fatigue (31% [95% CI 27%-35%]; 78 studies, 13,385 patients; I2 95%). Overall, 17% of hospitalised patients required non-invasive ventilation (34 studies, 7519 patients), 17% required intensive care (34 studies, 7519 patients), 9% required invasive ventilation (25 studies, 6933 patients) and 2% required extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation (73 studies, 10,402 patients). The mortality rate was 7% (73 studies, 10,402 patients). <br><br>Conclusions: We confirm that fever and cough are the most prevalent symptoms of adults infected by SARS-CoV-2. However, there is a large proportion of infected adults which symptoms-alone do not identify."

selected = false
featured = false

doi = "10.1371/journal.pone.0234765"

url_pdf = "https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0234765&type=printable"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

tags = ["Systematic-review"]
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
