+++
## Generated by the R package lazyacademic
## Do not edit directly, edit the data source (id = https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1d0Y6FAWaVOr5VMx8_lRYm2VM2HHm2ocWIoUZwtqWHhU/edit#gid=31021914)

title = "Therapeutic interventions for alcohol dependence in non-inpatient settings; a systematic review and network meta-analysis (protocol)"
date = 2017-04-11
authors = ["Cheng HY","Elbers RG","Higgins JPT","Taylor A","MacArthur GJ","**McGuinness LA**","Dawson S","López-López JA","Cowlishaw S","Hickman M","Kessler D"]
publication_types = ["2"]

publication = "Systematic Reviews *6* 1:77"

abstract = "Background: Alcohol dependence is common and serious cause of social and physical harm. However, the optimal management of those with moderate and severe alcohol dependence in primary and community care after detoxification remains unclear. The aim of this review is to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions for maintaining abstinence in people with alcohol dependence following detoxification. <br><br>Methods: We will systematically search electronic databases and clinical trial registries for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining the effectiveness of pharmacological and/or psychosocial interventions for maintaining abstinence in recently detoxified, alcohol-dependent adults. The searches will be complemented by checking references and citations from included studies and other relevant systematic reviews. No limitation on language, year, or publication status will be applied. RCTs will be selected using prespecified criteria. Descriptive information, study characteristics, and results of eligible RCTs will be extracted. A revised version of the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool (RoB 2.0) will be used to assess the risk of bias in eligible RCTs. Results will be synthesized and analyzed using network meta-analysis (NMA). Overall strength of the evidence and publication bias will be evaluated. Subgroup and sensitivity analysis will also be performed. <br><br>Discussion: This network meta-analysis aims to appraise and summarize the total evidence of therapeutic interventions for alcohol-dependent patients that require support for detoxification and can be treated in the community. The evidence will determine which combination of interventions are most promising for current practice and further investigation."

selected = false
featured = false

doi = "10.1186/s13643-017-0462-2"

url_pdf = "https://systematicreviewsjournal.biomedcentral.com/track/pdf/10.1186/s13643-017-0462-2"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

tags = ["Systematic-review","Protocol"]
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
